# CS-405-Secure-Coding

The adoption of a comprehensive secure coding standard is essential to protect software code from malicious users that seeks to exploit vulnerabilities. It can be seen as a way to prevent cybersecurity incidents, such as data leaks, from occurring by requiring developers to establish mitigation techniques for common software security vulnerabilities (Morrow, 2023). By addressing security concerns throughout development and not leaving it to the end, developers can be proactive in their defense, recover from security incidents more quickly, and better protect their users and reputation. Training is critical to the success of using a secure coding standard and all stakeholders must be educated on security practices for protocols to be effective (Start With Security: A Guide for Business, n.d.). The secure coding standard can be used to hold individuals accountable for compliance with security protocols and to support an organization’s mission (Dunham, 2020). 
The risk of waiting to mitigate security vulnerabilities until later in the software development lifecycle (SDLC), or when a threat occurs, is dangerous and puts users, data, and software code in jeopardy. It is more difficult for developers to locate and patch vulnerabilities later in development and results in increased recovery times and remediation costs. Integrating security throughout the SDLC reduces the cost of and time for fixing security flaws because they are identified before production and deployment (Salvaggio & Mahfoudhi, 2021). Automation tools can be used to abstract testing responsibilities from developers during software development and ensure that code is protected from security exploits and that its behavior aligns with its design. Threat modeling and considering the motive for an attack facilitates the integration of security early in development by helping identify flaws in application architecture and design and forcing developers to plan out mitigation strategies for perceived threats before writing any code (Vijayan, 2022).<br><br>
The Zero Trust concept is a best practice that requires all entities, inside and outside of a network, to be viewed as untrustworthy. It is strict security protocol where every user, device, and system must continuously verify their identity to authenticate themselves and establish trust before accessing a resource or network. It replaces the “trust but verify” model which is flawed because of internal threats that can occur from social engineering attacks such as phishing scams. Trust must be established across device, user, session, application, and data levels before access is granted (Kueh, 2020). Multi-factor authentication (MFA) in addition to password-based user authentication is a method that can deter internal threats such as the one that occurred during the Twilio phishing attack in 2022. The Twilio phishing attack tricked some of their employees into providing their system credentials which allowed hackers to gain access to customer data (Incident Report: Employee and Customer Account Compromise, 2022). However, MFA, as part of Zero Trust adoption, could have mitigated the threat had it been implemented for internal network access.<br><br>
The implementation of security policies should be layered using a defense in depth approach and must include protocols for authentication, authorization, accounting, encryption, and input validation. All access requests should be authenticated before granted as a first line of defense to protect network resources. After authentication, authorization should be used to determine if an authenticated entity has permission to access a network resource. Accounting should be used to measure the resources consumed while accessing a network and monitor actions performed so that network administrators can quickly track and resolve problems when they arise (Magnusson, 2022). Encryption can be used to protect data at rest, in flight, and in use by transforming it into an unreadable format so that if it is intercepted, it cannot be deciphered. Input validation protects from threats such as buffer overflow and SQL injection. It also relates to sanitizing data sent to other systems. Exception and error handling can be used to validate input by detecting and addressing runtime and logic errors. Bad input will be caught by try-catch statements so that a program does not crash unexpectedly or perform undesirable or undefined behavior. Additionally, assertions can be used to check for errors that should never occur from input (Modern C++ Best Practices for Exceptions and Error Handling, 2022). <br><br>
<b>References</b><br><br>
Dunham, R. (2020, May 5). The Importance of A Company Information Security Policy. Linford & Company LLP. https://linfordco.com/blog/information-security-policies/<br><br>
Incident Report: Employee and Customer Account Compromise. (2022, October 27). Twilio Blog. https://www.twilio.com/blog/august-2022-social-engineering-attack<br><br>
Kueh, T. (2020, January 15). A Practical Guide to Zero-Trust Security. Threatpost. https://threatpost.com/practical-guide-zero-trust-security/151912/<br><br>
Magnusson, A. (2022, December 9). What is AAA Security? Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting. strongdm.    https://www.strongdm.com/blog/aaa-security<br><br>
Modern C++ best practices for exceptions and error handling. (2022, October 16). Microsoft. https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/cpp/errors-and-exception-handling-modern-cpp?redirectedfrom=MSDN&view=msvc-170<br><br>
Morrow, S. (2023). What is Secure Coding and Why is It Important? VPNOverview.com. https://vpnoverview.com/internet-safety/business/what-is-secure-coding/<br><br>
Salvaggio, L., & Mahfoudhi, M. (2021, November 23). Putting security first: Five phases of SSDLC. CGI. https://www.cgi.com/us/en-us/federal/blog/put-security-first-ssdlc<br><br>
Start with Security: A Guide for Business. (n.d.). Federal Trade Commission. https://www.ftc.gov/business-guidance/resources/start-security-guide-business<br><br>
Vijayan, J. (2022). 6 DevSecOps best practices: Automate early and often. TechBeacon. https://techbeacon.com/security/6-devsecops-best-practices-automate-early-often

